1. Rinse 1 cup tightly packed coriander leaves, ½ cup tightly packed mint leaves, 2 to 3 green chilies and 1 inch ginger very well. Peel the ginger and roughly chop it. Also chop the green chilies. Roughly chop the coriander leaves and mint leaves.
2. Add coriander leaves, mint leaves, ginger and green chili in a grinder or blender jar. For a less spicy pani you can add just 1 chopped green chilli.
3. Add 1 tablespoon tightly packed tamarind and 3.5 to 4 tablespoons jaggery powder or grated jaggery. If you do not have tamarind, then you can use 2 tablespoons lemon juice. You can also use equal amounts of jaggery and dates. So you can add 2 tablespoons crumbled jaggery and 2 tablespoons chopped dates.
4. Now add 1 teaspoon roasted cumin powder, 1 teaspoon chaat masala and salt as per taste.
5. Add ⅓ cup water and grind to a smooth consistency.
6. Remove the chutney in a bowl or a small pan.
7. Now add ½ cup water in the grinder jar and swirl the jar so that the chutney at the sides of the jar gets mixed with the water.
8. Add this water in the bowl.
9. Then add ½ to ¾ cup water. You can add less or more water depending on the consistency you want. But do not add too much water as then the taste & flavor of the pani reduces. Also check the taste and if required you can add some more jaggery or salt.
10. Mix very well. Cover the pan and refrigerate the pani. Before refrigerating you can also add 1 to 1.5 tablespoon boondi.
11. Boil 2 to 3 medium potatoes. When warm, peel them and chop them in small cubes. You can also add some boiled moong sprouts. Some finely chopped onions can also be added.
12. Add 1 to 1.5 tablespoon chopped coriander leaves.
13. Then add ¼ teaspoon red chili powder, 1 teaspoon chaat masala and 1 teaspoon roasted cumin powder. Also add salt as per taste.
14. Mix very well. Keep aside.
15. Keep everything ready before you start assembling the pani puri. The potato filling, pooris and the pani. If you want you can make sweet tamarind dates chutney to add magical taste. First crack the top pooris with the spoon or your fingers. Then stuff the potato filling in the pooris. Add a few teaspoons of sweet chutney or as per your choice. Addition of sweet chutney is optional for the pani recipe.
16. Then add a few teaspoons of the green pani or as per your choice.
17. The pani puri is ready to serve. they have to be had immediately. Or else the puris become soggy.
